Angular apps are modular and Angular has its own modularity system called _Angular modules_ or _NgModules_.

_Angular modules_ are a big deal.
This page introduces modules; the Angular modules page covers them in depth.

Every Angular app has at least one Angular module class, the _root module_,
conventionally named `AppModule`.

While the _root module_ may be the only module in a small application, most apps have many more
_feature modules_, each a cohesive block of code dedicated to an application domain,
a workflow, or a closely related set of capabilities.

An Angular module, whether a _root_ or _feature_, is a class with an `@NgModule` decorator.

> Decorators are functions that modify JavaScript classes.
  Angular has many decorators that attach metadata to classes so that it knows
  what those classes mean and how they should work.
  <a href="https://medium.com/google-developers/exploring-es7-decorators-76ecb65fb841#.x5c2ndtx0" target="_blank">
  Learn more</a> about decorators on the web.


`NgModule` is a decorator function that takes a single metadata object whose properties describe the module.
The most important properties are:
* `declarations` - the _view classes_ that belong to this module.
Angular has three kinds of view classes: components, directives, and pipes.

* `exports` - the subset of declarations that should be visible and usable in the component templates of other modules.

* `imports` - other modules whose exported classes are needed by component templates declared in _this_ module.

* `providers` - creators of services that this module contributes to
the global collection of services; they become accessible in all parts of the app.

* `bootstrap` - the main application view, called the _root component_,
that hosts all other app views. Only the _root module_ should set this `bootstrap` property.

Here's a simple root module:
```TypeScript
  import { NgModule }      from '@angular/core';
  import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
  @NgModule({
    imports:      [ BrowserModule ],
    providers:    [ Logger ],
    declarations: [ AppComponent ],
    exports:      [ AppComponent ],
    bootstrap:    [ AppComponent ]
  })
  export class AppModule { }
```

> The `export` of `AppComponent` is just to show how to export; it isn't actually necessary in this example. A root module has no reason to _export_ anything because other components don't need to _import_ the root module.

Launch an application by _bootstrapping_ its root module.
During development you're likely to bootstrap the `AppModule` in a `main.ts` file like this one.

```TypeScript
  import { platformBrowserDynamic } from '@angular/platform-browser-dynamic';
  import { AppModule } from './app.module';

  platformBrowserDynamic().bootstrapModule(AppModule);
```

### Angular modules vs. JavaScript modules

The Angular module &mdash; a class decorated with `@NgModule` &mdash; is a fundamental feature of Angular.

JavaScript also has its own module system for managing collections of JavaScript objects.
It's completely different and unrelated to the Angular module system.

In JavaScript each _file_ is a module and all objects defined in the file belong to that module.
The module declares some objects to be public by marking them with the `export` key word.
Other JavaScript modules use *import statements* to access public objects from other modules.

```TypeScript
  import { NgModule }     from '@angular/core';
  import { AppComponent } from './app.component';
```

```TypeScript
  export class AppModule { }
```

<a href="http://exploringjs.com/es6/ch_modules.html" target="_blank">Learn more about the JavaScript module system on the web.</a>
:marked
These are two different and _complementary_ module systems. Use them both to write your apps.

### Angular libraries

Angular ships as a collection of JavaScript modules. You can think of them as library modules.

Each Angular library name begins with the `@angular` prefix.

You install them with the **npm** package manager and import parts of them with JavaScript `import` statements.

For example, import Angular's `Component` decorator from the `@angular/core` library like this:

```TypeScript
  import { Component } from '@angular/core';
```

You also import Angular _modules_ from Angular _libraries_ using JavaScript import statements:

```TypeScript
  import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
```

In the example of the simple root module above, the application module needs material from within that `BrowserModule`. To access that material, add it to the `@NgModule` metadata `imports` like this.

```TypeScript
  imports:      [ BrowserModule ],
```

In this way you're using both the Angular and JavaScript module systems _together_.

It's easy to confuse the two systems because they share the common vocabulary of "imports" and "exports".
Hang in there. The confusion yields to clarity with time and experience.
