
Angular templates are *dynamic*. When Angular renders them, it transforms the DOM
according to the instructions given by **directives**.

A directive is a class with a `@Directive` decorator.
A component is a *directive-with-a-template*;
a `@Component` decorator is actually a `@Directive` decorator extended with template-oriented features.

> While **a component is technically a directive**,
components are so distinctive and central to Angular applications that this architectural overview  separates components from directives.

Two *other* kinds of directives exist: _structural_ and _attribute_ directives.

They tend to appear within an element tag as attributes do,
sometimes by name but more often as the target of an assignment or a binding.

**Structural** directives alter layout by adding, removing, and replacing elements in DOM.

The example template uses two built-in structural directives:

```html
  <li *ngFor="let hero of heroes"></li>
  <hero-detail *ngIf="selectedHero"></hero-detail>
```

* `*ngFor` tells Angular to stamp out one `<li>` per hero in the `heroes` list.
* `*ngIf` includes the `HeroDetail` component only if a selected hero exists.

**Attribute** directives alter the appearance or behavior of an existing element.
In templates they look like regular HTML attributes, hence the name.

The `ngModel` directive, which implements two-way data binding, is
an example of an attribute directive. `ngModel` modifies the behavior of
an existing element (typically an `<input>`)
by setting its display value property and responding to change events.

```html
  <input [(ngModel)]="hero.name">
```

Angular has a few more directives that either alter the layout structure
(for example, ngSwitch)
or modify aspects of DOM elements and components
(for example, ngStyle and ngClass).

Of course, you can also write your own directives. Components such as
`HeroListComponent` are one kind of custom directive.
