_Service_ is a broad category encompassing any value, function, or feature that your application needs.

Almost anything can be a service.
A service is typically a class with a narrow, well-defined purpose. It should do something specific and do it well.

Examples include:
* logging service
* data service
* message bus
* tax calculator
* application configuration

There is nothing specifically _Angular_ about services. Angular has no definition of a service.
There is no service base class, and no place to register a service.

Yet services are fundamental to any Angular application. Components are big consumers of services.

Here's an example of a service class that logs to the browser console:

```TypeScript
  export class Logger {
    log(msg: any)   { console.log(msg); }
    error(msg: any) { console.error(msg); }
    warn(msg: any)  { console.warn(msg); }
  }
```

Here's a `HeroService` that uses a !{_PromiseLinked} to fetch heroes.
The `HeroService` depends on the `Logger` service and another `BackendService` that handles the server communication grunt work.

```TypeScript
  export class HeroService {
    private heroes: Hero[] = [];

    constructor(
      private backend: BackendService,
      private logger: Logger) { }

    getHeroes() {
      this.backend.getAll(Hero).then( (heroes: Hero[]) => {
        this.logger.log(`Fetched ${heroes.length} heroes.`);
        this.heroes.push(...heroes); // fill cache
      });
      return this.heroes;
    }
  }
```

Services are everywhere.

Component classes should be lean. They don't fetch data from the server,
validate user input, or log directly to the console.
They delegate such tasks to services.

A component's job is to enable the user experience and nothing more. It mediates between the view (rendered by the template)
and the application logic (which often includes some notion of a _model_).
A good component presents properties and methods for data binding.
It delegates everything nontrivial to services.

Angular doesn't *enforce* these principles.
It won't complain if you write a "kitchen sink" component with 3000 lines.

Angular does help you *follow* these principles by making it easy to factor your
application logic into services and make those services available to components through *dependency injection*.
