## What's AJAX?

AJAX stands for Asynchronous JavaScript and XML. In a nutshell, it is the use of the XMLHttpRequest object to communicate with server-side scripts. It can send as well as receive information in a variety of formats, including JSON, XML, HTML, and even text files. AJAX’s most appealing characteristic, however, is its "asynchronous" nature, which means it can do all of this without having to refresh the page. This lets you update portions of a page based upon user events.

The two major features of AJAX allow you to do the following:

* Make requests to the server without reloading the page
* Receive and work with data from the server

## What are Promises?

A Promise is a proxy for a value not necessarily known when the promise is created. It allows you to associate handlers with an asynchronous action's eventual success value or failure reason. This lets asynchronous methods return values like synchronous methods: instead of immediately returning the final value, the asynchronous method returns a promise to supply the value at some point in the future.

A Promise is in one of these states:

* pending: initial state, not fulfilled or rejected.
* fulfilled: meaning that the operation completed successfully.
* rejected: meaning that the operation failed.

A pending promise can either be fulfilled with a value, or rejected with a reason (error). When either of these happens, the associated handlers queued up by a promise's then method are called. (If the promise has already been fulfilled or rejected when a corresponding handler is attached, the handler will be called, so there is no race condition between an asynchronous operation completing and its handlers being attached.)

As the `Promise.prototype.then()` and `Promise.prototype.catch()` methods return promises, they can be chained.

# What are Observables?

Observables are similar to promises but with major differences that make them better.
The Observable proposal is in stage 1 ( https://tc39.github.io/proposal-observable/ ) so there is chance for native support in the future. Observables are similar to promises but with major differences that make them better. The key differences are:

| Observables |	Promise |
| ----------- | ------- |
|Observables handle multiple values over time	| Promises are only called once and will return a single value|
|Observables are cancellable	| Promises are not cancellable|

The ability of observables being able to handle multiple values over time makes them a good candidate for working with real-time data, events and any sort of stream you can think of.

Being able to cancel observables gives better control when working with in-flow of values from a stream. The common example is the auto-complete widget which sends a request for every key-stroke.

If you are searching for angular in an auto-complete, the first request is with a and then an. The scary thing is that an might come back with a response before a which produces a messy data. With observables, you have better control to hook in and cancel a's because an is coming through.

Observables is an ES7 feature which means you need to make use of an external library to use it today. RxJS is a good one. RxJS also provides Observable operators which you can use to manipulate the data being emitted. Some of these operators are:

* Map
* Filter
* Take
* Skip
* Debounce

Above is a list of popular operators you will encounter in most projects but those are not all. See RxMarbles for more.

# Angular 2 HTTP and Observables

Hopefully, you have seen what observables are capable of. Good news is, you can also use observables to handle HTTP requests rather than Promises. I understand you might have started in the days when callbacks were the hot thing when handling XHR, then a couple of years back you got the news that callbacks were now a bad practice you had to use promises. Now again, we're hearing that we should use observables rather than promises.

We just have to get used to change and growth to build better and cooler stuff
Angular and Angular 2 is amazing now you are hearing that you should use observables rather than promises. That is a general tech challenge and we just have to get used to change and growth to build better and cooler stuff. Trust me you won't regret this one.

The rest of this article will focus on building a demo that uses observables to handle HTTP requests.
