Node.js and npm are essential to modern web development with Angular and other platforms.
Node powers client development and build tools.
The _npm_ package manager, itself a _node_ application, installs JavaScript libraries.

[Download NodeJs, install and follow the prompts. The most current LTS version is recommended.](https://nodejs.org/en/)

Node comes with npm installed so you should have a version of npm. However, npm gets updated more frequently than Node does, so you'll want to make sure it's the latest version.

Run the following command to upgrade npm to the latest version:

```shell
  npm install npm@latest -g
```

**Verify that you are running node `v4.x.x` or higher and npm `3.x.x` or higher**
by running the commands `node -v` and `npm -v` in a terminal/console window.
Older versions produce errors.

## Basic Node Usage

Open up a terminal window (depending on which OS you're running), and run the following command:

```shell
  node
```

This will start up a REPL (Read-Eval-Print-Loop) environment for you to run javascript against.

Go ahead and try and execute a simple javascript command and see the output, as follows.

```shell
  > console.log('Hello World');
  Hello World
```

You can save this as a standalone javascript file. Create a new directory with a file in it called `index.js`, and put the following in it.

```javascript
  function message() {
    return "world";
  }

  console.log("Hello " + message() + "``");
```

And then run it using the following to see the output:

```shell
  node hello-world.js
```

While we're not going to be using node directly like this, it is a great way to explore the runtime and learn javascript in general.

## Basic NPM Usage
<!--
title: 04 - Installing npm packages locally
featured: true
-->

### Installing npm packages locally

There are two ways to install npm packages: locally or globally. You choose which kind of
installation to use based on how you want to use the package.

If you want to depend on the package from your own module using something like Node.js'
`require`, then you want to install locally, which is `npm install`'s default behavior.
On the other hand, if you want to use it as a command line tool, something like the grunt CLI,
then you want to install it globally.

A package can be downloaded with the command:

```
> npm install <package_name>
```

>This will create the `node_modules` directory in your current directory(if one doesn't exist yet),
and will download the package to that directory.

#### Test:

To confirm that `npm install` worked correctly, check to see that a `node_modules`
directory exists and that it contains a directory for the package(s) you installed.
You can do this by running `ls node_modules` on Unix systems, e.g. "OSX", "Debian", or `dir node_modules`
on Windows.

#### Example:

Install a package called `lodash`. Confirm that it ran successfully by listing the
contents of the `node_modules` directory and seeing a directory called `lodash`.

```
> npm install lodash
> ls node_modules               # use `dir` for Windows

#=> lodash
```

## Which version of the package is installed?

If there is no `package.json` file in the local directory, the latest version of the
package is installed.

If there is `package.json` file, the latest version satisfying the semver rule
declared in `package.json` for that package (if there is any) is installed.

## Using the installed package

Once the package is in `node_modules`, you can use it in your code. For example, if you
are creating a Node.js module, you can `require` it.

#### Example:

Create a file named `index.js`, with the following code:

```javascript
// index.js
var lodash = require('lodash');

var output = lodash.without([1, 2, 3], 1);
console.log(output);
```

Run the code using `node index.js`. It should output `[2, 3]`.

If you had not properly installed `lodash`, you would receive this error:

```
module.js:340
    throw err;
          ^
Error: Cannot find module 'lodash'
```

To fix this, run `npm install lodash` in the same directory as your `index.js`.

## Using a `package.json`

The best way to manage locally installed npm packages is to create a
`package.json` file.

A `package.json` file affords you a lot of great things:

1. It serves as documentation for what packages your project depends on.
2. It allows you to specify the versions of a package that your project
can use using [semantic versioning rules][1].
3. Makes your build reproducable which means that its *way* easier
to share with other developers.

## Requirements

As a bare minimum, a `package.json` must have:

- `"name"`
  - all lowercase
  - one word, no spaces
  - dashes and underscores allowed
- `"version"`
  - in the form of `x.x.x`
  - follows [semver spec](https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started/semantic-versioning)

For example:

```
{
  "name": "my-awesome-package",
  "version": "1.0.0"
}
```

## Creating a `package.json`

To create a `package.json` run:

```
> npm init
```

This will initate a command line questionnaire that will conclude with the
creation of a `package.json` in the directory you initiated the command.

### The `--yes` init flag

The extended CLI Q&A experience is not for everyone, and often if you are
comfortable with using a `package.json` you'd like a more expedited
experience.

You can get a default `package.json` by running `npm init` with the `--yes`
or `-y` flag:

```
> npm init --yes
```

This will ask you only one question, `author`. Otherwise it will fill in default
values:

```
> npm init --yes
Wrote to /home/ag_dubs/my_package/package.json:

{
  "name": "my_package",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "main": "index.js",
  "scripts": {
    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
  },
  "keywords": [],
  "author": "ag_dubs",
  "license": "ISC",
  "repository": {
    "type": "git",
    "url": "https://github.com/ashleygwilliams/my_package.git"
  },
  "bugs": {
    "url": "https://github.com/ashleygwilliams/my_package/issues"
  },
  "homepage": "https://github.com/ashleygwilliams/my_package"
}
```

- `name`: defaults to author name unless in a `git` directory, in which case it
    will be the name of the repository
- `version`: always `1.0.0`
- `main`: always `index.js`
- `scripts`: by default creates a empty `test` script
- `keywords`: empty
- `author`: whatever you provided the CLI
- `license`: `ISC`
- `repository`: will pull in info from the current directory, if present
- `bugs`: will pull in info from the current directory, if present
- `homepage`: will pull in info from the current directory, if present

You can also set several config options for the init command. Some useful ones:


```
> npm set init.author.email "wombat@npmjs.com"
> npm set init.author.name "ag_dubs"
> npm set init.license "MIT"
```

#### NOTE:
If there is no description field in the `package.json`, npm uses the first line of the `README.md` or README instead. The description helps people find your package on npm search, so it's definitely useful to make a custom description in the `package.json` to make your package more discoverable.

## Specifying Packages

To specify the packages your project depends on, you need to
list the packages you'd like to use in your `package.json` file. There are
2 types of packages you can list:

- `"dependencies"`: these packages are required by your application in production
- `"devDependencies"`: these packages are only needed for development and testing

### Manually editing your `package.json`

You can manually edit your `package.json`. You'll need to create an attribute
in the package object called `dependencies` that points to an object. This object
will hold attributes named after the packages you'd like to use, that point to a
[semver][1] expression that specifies what versions of that project are
compatible with your project.

If you have dependencies you only need to use during local development, you will
follow the same instructions as above but in an attribute called `devDependencies`.

For example: The project below uses any version of the package `my_dep` that matches
major version 1 in production, and requires any version of the package `my_test_framework`
that matches major version 3, but only for development:

```
{
  "name": "my_package",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "dependencies": {
    "my_dep": "^1.0.0"
  },
  "devDependencies" : {
    "my_test_framework": "^3.1.0"
  }
}
```

### The `--save` and `--save-dev` install flags

The easier (and more awesome) way to add dependencies to your `package.json` is to do
so from the command line, flagging the `npm install` command with either `--save` or
`--save-dev`, depending on how you'd like to use that dependency.

To add an entry to your `package.json`'s `dependencies`:

```
npm install <package_name> --save
```

To add an entry to your `package.json`'s `devDependencies`:

```
npm install <package_name> --save-dev
```

## Managing dependency versions

npm uses Semantic Versioning, or, as we often refer to it, SemVer, to manage versions
and ranges of versions of packages.

If you have a `package.json` file in your directory and you run
`npm install`, then npm will look at the dependencies that are listed in
that file and download the latest versions satisfying semver rules
for all of those.
