The Tour of Heroes is evolving and we anticipate adding more components in the near future.

Multiple components will need access to hero data and we don't want to copy and
paste the same code over and over.
Instead, we'll create a single reusable data service and learn to
inject it in the components that need it.

Refactoring data access to a separate service keeps the component lean and focused on supporting the view.
It also makes it easier to unit test the component with a mock service.

Because data services are invariably asynchronous,
we'll finish the chapter with a **promise**-based version of the data service.

## Where We Left Off
Before we continue with our Tour of Heroes, let’s verify we have the following structure.
If not, we’ll need to go back and follow the previous chapters.

```
angular-tour-of-heroes  
├── app
|   ├── app.component.ts
|   ├── app.module.ts
|   ├── hero.ts
|   ├── hero-detail.component.ts
|   ├── main.ts
├── node_modules ...
├── index.html
├── package.json
├── styles.css
├── systemjs.config.js
├── tsconfig.json
```

### Keep the app transpiling and running
Open a terminal/console window.
Start the TypeScript compiler, watch for changes, and start our server by entering the command:

```shell
npm start
```

The application runs and updates automatically as we continue to build the Tour of Heroes.

## Creating a Hero Service
Our stakeholders have shared their larger vision for our app.
They tell us they want to show the heroes in various ways on different pages.
We already can select a hero from a list.
Soon we'll add a dashboard with the top performing heroes and create a separate view for editing hero details.
All three views need hero data.

At the moment the `AppComponent` defines mock heroes for display.
We have at least two objections.
First, defining heroes is not the component's job.
Second, we can't easily share that list of heroes with other components and views.

We can refactor this hero data acquisition business to a single service that provides heroes, and
share that service with all components that need heroes.

### Create the HeroService
Create a file in the `app` folder called `hero.service.ts`.

> We've adopted a convention in which we spell the name of a service in lowercase followed by `.service`.
If the service name were multi-word, we'd spell the base filename in lower dash-case.
The `SpecialSuperHeroService` would be defined in the `special-super-hero.service.ts` file.

We name the class `HeroService` and export it for others to import.

```TypeScript
  import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';

  @Injectable()
  export class HeroService {
  }
```

### Injectable Services
Notice that we imported the Angular `Injectable` function and applied that function as an `@Injectable()` decorator.

_**Don't forget the parentheses!** Neglecting them leads to an error that's difficult to diagnose._

TypeScript sees the `@Injectable()` decorator and emits metadata about our service,
metadata that Angular may need to inject other dependencies into this service.

The `HeroService` doesn't have any dependencies *at the moment*. Add the decorator anyway.
It is a "best practice" to apply the `@Injectable()` decorator ​*from the start*​
both for consistency and for future-proofing.


### Getting Heroes
Add a `getHeroes` method stub.

```TypeScript
  @Injectable()
  export class HeroService {
    getHeroes(): void {} // stub
  }
```
We're holding back on the implementation for a moment to make an important point.

The consumer of our service doesn't know how the service gets the data.
Our `HeroService` could get `Hero` data from anywhere.
It could get the data from a web service or local storage
or from a mock data source.

That's the beauty of removing data access from the component.
We can change our minds about the implementation as often as we like,
for whatever reason, without touching any of the components that need heroes.


### Mock Heroes  
We already have mock `Hero` data sitting in the `AppComponent`.  It doesn't belong there. It doesn't belong *here* either.
We'll move the mock data to its own file.

Cut the `HEROES` array from `app.component.ts` and paste it to a new file in the `app` folder named `mock-heroes.ts`.
We copy the `import {Hero} ...` statement as well because the heroes array uses the `Hero` class.

```TypeScript
  import { Hero } from './hero';
  export const HEROES: Hero[] = [
    {id: 11, name: 'Mr. Nice'},
    {id: 12, name: 'Narco'},
    {id: 13, name: 'Bombasto'},
    {id: 14, name: 'Celeritas'},
    {id: 15, name: 'Magneta'},
    {id: 16, name: 'RubberMan'},
    {id: 17, name: 'Dynama'},
    {id: 18, name: 'Dr IQ'},
    {id: 19, name: 'Magma'},
    {id: 20, name: 'Tornado'}
  ];
```

We export the `HEROES` constant so we can import it elsewhere &mdash; such as our `HeroService`.

Meanwhile, back in `app.component.ts` where we cut away the `HEROES` array,
we leave behind an uninitialized `heroes` property:
```TypeScript
  heroes: Hero[];
```

### Return Mocked Heroes
Back in the `HeroService`  we import the mock `HEROES` and return it from the `getHeroes` method.
Our `HeroService` looks like this:

```TypeScript
  import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';

  import { Hero } from './hero';
  import { HEROES } from './mock-heroes';

  @Injectable()
  export class HeroService {
    getHeroes(): Hero[] {
      return HEROES;
    }
  }
```

### Use the Hero Service
We're ready to use the `HeroService` in other components starting with our `AppComponent`.

We begin, as usual, by importing the thing we want to use, the `HeroService`.

```TypeScript
  import { HeroService } from './hero.service';
```

Importing the service allows us to *reference* it in our code.
How should the `AppComponent` acquire a runtime concrete `HeroService` instance?

### Do we *new* the *HeroService*? No way!
We could create a new instance  of the `HeroService` with `new` like this:

```TypeScript
  heroService = new HeroService(); // don't do this
```

That's a bad idea for several reasons including

* Our component has to know how to create a `HeroService`.
If we ever change the `HeroService` constructor,
we'll have to find every place we create the service and fix it.
Running around patching code is error prone and adds to the test burden.

* We create a new service each time we use `new`.
What if the service should cache heroes and share that cache with others?
We couldn't do that.

* We're locking the `AppComponent` into a specific implementation of the `HeroService`.
It will be hard to switch implementations for different scenarios.
Can we operate offline?
Will we need different mocked versions under test?
Not easy.

*What if ... what if ... Hey, we've got work to do!*

We get it. Really we do.
But it is so ridiculously easy to avoid these problems that there is no excuse for doing it wrong.

### Inject the *HeroService*

Two lines replace the one line that created with *new*:
1. We add a constructor that also defines a private property.
1. We add to the component's `providers` metadata.

Here's the constructor:

```TypeScript
  constructor(private heroService: HeroService) { }
```

The constructor itself does nothing. The parameter simultaneously
defines a private `heroService` property and identifies it as a `HeroService` injection site.

Now Angular will know to supply an instance of the `HeroService` when it creates a new `AppComponent`.

The *injector* does not know yet how to create a `HeroService`.
If we ran our code now, Angular would fail with an error:

```
  EXCEPTION: No provider for HeroService! (AppComponent -> HeroService)
```

We have to teach the *injector* how to make a `HeroService` by registering a `HeroService` **provider**.
Do that by adding the following `providers` array property to the bottom of the component metadata
in the `@Component` call.

```TypeScript
  providers: [HeroService]
```

The `providers` array  tells Angular to create a fresh instance of the `HeroService` when it creates a new `AppComponent`.
The `AppComponent` can use that service to get heroes and so can every child component of its component tree.


### *getHeroes* in the *AppComponent*
We've got the service in a `heroService` private variable. Let's use it.

We pause to think. We can call the service and get the data in one line.

```TypeScript
  this.heroes = this.heroService.getHeroes();
```

We don't really need a dedicated method to wrap one line.  We write it anyway:

```TypeScript
  getHeroes(): void {
    this.heroes = this.heroService.getHeroes();
  }
```

### The *ngOnInit* Lifecycle Hook
`AppComponent` should fetch and display heroes without a fuss.
Where do we call the `getHeroes` method? In a constructor? We do *not*!

Years of experience and bitter tears have taught us to keep complex logic out of the constructor,
especially anything that might call a server as a data access method is sure to do.

The constructor is for simple initializations like wiring constructor parameters to properties.
It's not for heavy lifting. We should be able to create a component in a test and not worry that it
might do real work &mdash; like calling a server!  &mdash; before we tell it to do so.

If not the constructor, something has to call `getHeroes`.

Angular will call it if we implement the Angular **ngOnInit** *Lifecycle Hook*.
Angular offers a number of interfaces for tapping into critical moments in the component lifecycle:
at creation, after each change, and at its eventual destruction.

Each interface has a single method. When the component implements that method, Angular calls it at the appropriate time.

Here's the essential outline for the `OnInit` interface:

```TypeScript
  import { OnInit } from '@angular/core';

  export class AppComponent implements OnInit {
    ngOnInit(): void {
    }
  }
```

We write an `ngOnInit` method with our initialization logic inside and leave it to Angular to call it
at the right time. In our case, we initialize by calling `getHeroes`.

```TypeScript
  ngOnInit(): void {
    this.getHeroes();
  }
```

Our application should be running as expected, showing a list of heroes and a hero detail view
when we click on a hero name.

We're getting closer. But something isn't quite right.

## Async Services and Promises
Our `HeroService` returns a list of mock heroes immediately.
Its `getHeroes` signature is synchronous

```TypeScript
  this.heroes = this.heroService.getHeroes();
```

Ask for heroes and they are there in the returned result.

Someday we're going to get heroes from a remote server. We don’t call http yet, but we aspire to in later chapters.

When we do, we'll have to wait for the server to respond and we won't be able to block the UI while we wait,
even if we want to (which we shouldn't) because the browser won't block.

We'll have to use some kind of asynchronous technique and that will change the signature of our `getHeroes` method.

We'll use *Promises*.

### The Hero Service makes a Promise  

A **promise** is ... well it's a promise to call us back later when the results are ready.
We ask an asynchronous service to do some work and give it a callback function.
It does that work (somewhere) and eventually it calls our function with the results of the work or an error.

Update the `HeroService` with this Promise-returning `getHeroes` method:

```TypeScript
  getHeroes(): Promise<Hero[]> {
    return Promise.resolve(HEROES);
  }
```

We're still mocking the data. We're simulating the behavior of an ultra-fast, zero-latency server,
by returning an **immediately resolved Promise** with our mock heroes as the result.

### Act on the Promise
Returning to the `AppComponent` and its `getHeroes` method, we see that it still looks like this:

```TypeScript
  getHeroes(): void {
    this.heroes = this.heroService.getHeroes();
  }
```

As a result of our change to `HeroService`, we're now setting `this.heroes` to a promise rather than an array of heroes.

We have to change our implementation to *act on the promise when it resolves*.
When the promise resolves successfully, *then* we will have heroes to display.

We pass our callback function as an argument to the promise's **then** method:

```TypeScript
  getHeroes(): void {
    this.heroService.getHeroes().then(heroes => this.heroes = heroes);
  }
```

The [ES2015 arrow function](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/Arrow_functions)
in the callback is more succinct than the equivalent function expression and gracefully handles *this*.

Our callback sets the component's `heroes` property to the array of heroes returned by the service. That's all there is to it!

Our app should still be running, still showing a list of heroes, and still
responding to a name selection with a detail view.


### Review the App Structure
Let’s verify that we have the following structure after all of our good refactoring in this chapter:

```
angular-tour-of-heroes  
├── app
|   ├── app.component.ts
|   ├── app.module.ts
|   ├── hero.ts
|   ├── hero-detail.component.ts
|   ├── hero.service.ts
|   ├── main.ts
|   ├── mock-heroes.ts
├── node_modules ...
├── index.html
├── package.json
├── styles.css
├── systemjs.config.js
├── tsconfig.json
```

Here are the code files we discussed in this chapter.

```TypeScript
// app/hero.service.ts
  import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
  import { Hero } from './hero';
  import { HEROES } from './mock-heroes';
  @Injectable()
  export class HeroService {
    getHeroes(): Promise<Hero[]> {
      return Promise.resolve(HEROES);
    }
  }
```

```TypeScript
// app/app.component.ts
  import { Component, OnInit } from '@angular/core';
  import { Hero } from './hero';
  import { HeroService } from './hero.service';

  @Component({
    selector: 'my-app',
    template: `
      <h1>{{title}}</h1>
      <h2>My Heroes</h2>
      <ul class="heroes">
        <li *ngFor="let hero of heroes"
          [class.selected]="hero === selectedHero"
          (click)="onSelect(hero)">
          <span class="badge">{{hero.id}}</span> {{hero.name}}
        </li>
      </ul>
      <my-hero-detail [hero]="selectedHero"></my-hero-detail>
    `,
    styles: [`
      .selected {
        background-color: #CFD8DC !important;
        color: white;
      }
      .heroes {
        margin: 0 0 2em 0;
        list-style-type: none;
        padding: 0;
        width: 15em;
      }
      .heroes li {
        cursor: pointer;
        position: relative;
        left: 0;
        background-color: #EEE;
        margin: .5em;
        padding: .3em 0;
        height: 1.6em;
        border-radius: 4px;
      }
      .heroes li.selected:hover {
        background-color: #BBD8DC !important;
        color: white;
      }
      .heroes li:hover {
        color: #607D8B;
        background-color: #DDD;
        left: .1em;
      }
      .heroes .text {
        position: relative;
        top: -3px;
      }
      .heroes .badge {
        display: inline-block;
        font-size: small;
        color: white;
        padding: 0.8em 0.7em 0 0.7em;
        background-color: #607D8B;
        line-height: 1em;
        position: relative;
        left: -1px;
        top: -4px;
        height: 1.8em;
        margin-right: .8em;
        border-radius: 4px 0 0 4px;
      }
    `],
    providers: [HeroService]
  })
  export class AppComponent implements OnInit {
    title = 'Tour of Heroes';
    heroes: Hero[];
    selectedHero: Hero;
    constructor(private heroService: HeroService) { }
    getHeroes(): void {
      this.heroService.getHeroes().then(heroes => this.heroes = heroes);
    }
    ngOnInit(): void {
      this.getHeroes();
    }
    onSelect(hero: Hero): void {
      this.selectedHero = hero;
    }
  }
```

```TypeScript
// app/mock-heroes.ts
  import { Hero } from './hero';

  export const HEROES: Hero[] = [
    {id: 11, name: 'Mr. Nice'},
    {id: 12, name: 'Narco'},
    {id: 13, name: 'Bombasto'},
    {id: 14, name: 'Celeritas'},
    {id: 15, name: 'Magneta'},
    {id: 16, name: 'RubberMan'},
    {id: 17, name: 'Dynama'},
    {id: 18, name: 'Dr IQ'},
    {id: 19, name: 'Magma'},
    {id: 20, name: 'Tornado'}
  ];
```

## The Road We’ve Travelled
Let’s take stock of what we’ve built.

* We created a service class that can be shared by many components.
* We used the `ngOnInit` Lifecycle Hook to get our heroes when our `AppComponent` activates.
* We defined our `HeroService` as a provider for our `AppComponent`.
* We created mock hero data and imported them into our service.
* We designed our service to return a promise and our component to get our data from the promise.
